.TH COMPUTERS 7 "November 2013" nlibc
.SH DESCRIPTION
It is very surprising how many programmers don't actually know how a program
works when it has been fully compiled. This document will show you exactly what 
a program looks like while running.

.SH ABSTRACT
Alan Turing was the one who first came up with the idea of a computer.
His idea was for a device that would have a long tape with numbers written
on it which would be read by a read/write head. This read/write head would
interpret some of these numbers as instructions for what to do with the rest
of the tape. The device would be able to do things like add numbers, move a 
string from one area of the tape to another, and run simulations.

.SH MODERN DAY COMPUTERS
Modern day computers have improved greatly on the original idea of a
computer. Some of the main differences include but are not limited to:

*The use of RAM and persistant storage media (such as hard drives) in place of tape.

*The use of numbers in binary to allow for the use of digital circuits.

*Assigning each number in RAM a unique number or "address".

*Using cpus rather than read/write heads.

*Using variables built into the cpu called "registers" to more quickly access 
certain variables

*variables that store the addresses of other variables (known as "pointers") which allow the computer to create elaborate structures of data.

*installing multiple cpus to be able to run more than one program at a time and
having each cpu quickly switch between various programs to allow it to run 
even more programs simultaniously.

*forcing each program to make requests to a "kernel" program rather than do 
direct IO so as to keep the system secure.
