.TH NLIBC-TESTS	7 "AUGUST 20" NLIBC
.SH DESCRIPTION
This document describes the test system in use for nlibc.
.SH DIRECTORY LAYOUT
All tests are located in the tests/ directory and are further split up by category into subdirectories.
.SH MAKEFILES
Every testing directory has its own makefile. This makefile contains targets for the libc.a, and asm.a files located in the project root directory.
The makefiles in each of these subdirectories recognizes the "test" target; however it will print out some ugly crap when you try to do the test from within a testing
directory. 
.SH ADDING TESTS
In order to add a test to a testing category simply create add "test-<your test name here>" as a dependency to the test target in Makefile.in.
If you want to add a wrapper script to call up your test then simply label it "<your test name here>-wrapper". The test result is given by the return value. A non-zero
return value indicates that the test has failed, and obviously a zero return value indicates that the test succeeded.
.SH TEST FEATURES
If your test wrapper is a bash script, it can source include/tmp.sh (relative to the root directory of the project) in order to get some functions for dealing with
temporary files. This tmp.sh will offer you a function called "newdir" which will create a new directory, and a function called "newfile" which will create a new file.
Unfortunately at this moment there is no system in place for ensuring that all files names are unique so you should probably include the name of your test in any
file/folder names that you make.
